Chrysalis Docs Review IV (#72)
iotaledger/chrysalis-docs: docs/guides/dev_guide.md

:::

![address_generation](assets/address_generation.svg)

So in case of Chrysalis, the derivation path of address/key space is `[seed]/44/4218/{int}/{0,1}/{int}`:
* The levels `purpose` and `coin_type` are given.
* The rest levels are up to developers to integrate, specifically `seed`, `account`, `wallet_chain` and `address_index`.

For further refefence, please see our [Protocol-rfc#0003 - Signature Scheme](https://github.com/iotaledger/protocol-rfcs/blob/ee07797acb5940b7dbb5c3411b184ccdc6afdbb1/text/0000-ed25519-signature-scheme/0000-ed25519-signature-scheme.md).

## Messages, Payloads, and Transactions
In comparison to original the IOTA 1.0, Chrysalis also introduced some fundamental changes to the underlying data structures. The original concept of `transactions` and `bundles` is gone, and has been replaced by a concept of `messages` and `payloads`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion 

### Messages

```

The `message` is an atomic unit that is confirmed by the network as a whole.

> IOTA is no longer based on ternary. IOTA 1.5 uses binary to encode and broadcast all underlying data entities.

A `message` can be up to 32 kb in size and it can hold variable sets of information called `payloads`. The number of payloads a single message can encapsulate is not given. Even a message without a `payload` is completely valid and can be broadcast. The `message` itself does not include any timestamp; a message timestamp is derived from an acceptance of the given message by the Tangle network.

For further refefence, please see our [Protocol-rfc#0017 - Message](https://github.com/GalRogozinski/protocol-rfcs/blob/message/text/0017-message/0017-message.md) 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion 

### Payloads

```

> A`payload` represents a layer of concern. Some payloads may change the state of the ledger (ex. `SignedTransactions`) and some may provide extra features to some specific applications and business use cases (ex. `IndexationPayload`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A`payload` represents a layer of concern. Some payloads may change the state of the ledger, for example  `SignedTransactions`.   Other payloads may provide extra features to some specific applications and business use cases, for example `IndexationPayload`.
```

There are already implemented core payloads, such as `SignedTransaction`, `MilestonePayload`, and `IndexationPayload` but the message and payload definition is generic enough to incorporate any future payload(s) the community agrees upon.

> For further refefence, please see our: [Protocol-rfc#0018 - Transaction Payload](https://github.com/luca-moser/protocol-rfcs/blob/signed-tx-payload/text/0000-transaction-payload/0000-transaction-payload.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
For further reference, please see our: [Protocol-rfc#0018 - Transaction Payload](https://github.com/luca-moser/protocol-rfcs/blob/signed-tx-payload/text/0000-transaction-payload/0000-transaction-payload.md).
```

Needless to say, the IOTA network ensures the outer structure of the message itself is valid and strictly complies with network consensus protocol. However, the inner structure is very flexible, future-proof, and offers an unmatched network extensibility.

![messages_in_tangle](assets/messages_in_tangle.svg)

The current Chrysalis network incorporates the following core payloads:

> * `SignedTransaction`: a payload that describes `UTXO` transactions that are the cornerstones of value-based transfers in the IOTA network. Via this payload, a `message` can be also cryptographically signed.

Reviewer: * `SignedTransaction`: a payload that describes `UTXO` transactions, which are the cornerstones of value-based transfers in the IOTA network. Via this payload, a `message` can be also cryptographically signed.

* `MilestonePayload`: a payload that is emitted by the Coordinator.
* `IndexationPayload`: a payload that enables the addition of an index to the encapsulating message, as well as some arbitrary data. The given index can be later used to search the message(s).

> In comparison to IOTA 1.0, a `message` itself is not directly related to the IOTA address while broadcasting to the Chrysalis network. Such messages are referenced using the so-called `message_id`. Messages are indirectly related to IOTA addresses via `SignedTransaction` payload, specifically the `UTXO` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In comparison to IOTA 1.0, a `message` is not directly related to the IOTA address while broadcasting to the Chrysalis network. Messages are referenced using the `message_id`. Messages are indirectly related to IOTA addresses via a `SignedTransaction` payload, specifically the `UTXO` section.
```

## Unspent Transaction Output (UTXO)

> Originally, IOTA 1.0 used an `account-based model` for tracking individual iota tokens: each IOTA address held a number of tokens and the aggregated number of tokens from all iota addresses was equal to the total supply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 

Originally, IOTA 1.0 used an `account-based model` for tracking individual iota tokens.  This meant each IOTA address held a number of tokens, and the aggregated number of tokens from all IOTA addresses was equal to the total supply.
```

In contrast, Chrysalis uses the `unspent transaction output` model, or `UTXO`. It is based on an idea to track unspent amounts of tokens via a data structure called `output`.

Below is a simplified analogy of how the UTXO works:
* There are 100 tokens recorded in the ledger as `Output A` and this output belongs to Alice. So, the **initial state of the ledger**: `Output A` = 100 tokens.
* Alice sends 20 tokens to Paul, 30 tokens to Linda, and keeps 50 tokens at her disposal.

> * Her 100 tokens are recorded as `Output A` so she has to divide (spent) tokens and create three new outputs:<br />`Output B` with 20 tokens that goes to Paul, `Output C` with 30 tokens that goes to Linda, and finally `Output D` with the rest of the 50 tokens that she kept for herself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Her 100 tokens are recorded as `Output A`, so she has to divide (spent) tokens, and create three new outputs:
    * `Output B` with 20 tokens that goes to Paul.
    * `Output C` with 30 tokens that goes to Linda.
    * `Output D` with the rest of the 50 tokens that she kept for herself.
```

> * **Original `Output A`** was completely spent and cannot be used any more. It has been spent and so **becomes irrelevant** to ledger state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 
    `Output A` was completely spent and cannot be used anymore. It has been spent, and so it becomes irrelevant to ledger state.
    
```

* **New state of ledger**: 
  * `Output B` = 20 tokens.
  * `Output C` = 30 tokens. 
  *  `Output D` = 50 tokens.

> * The total supply remains the same, just number of outputs differs and some outputs were replaced by other outputs in the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The total supply remains the same, just number of outputs differs, and some outputs were replaced by other outputs in the process.
```

![utxo](assets/utxo.svg)

> The key takeaway of the outlined process above is the fact that each unique `output` can be spent **only once**. Once the given `output` is spent, it cannot be used any more and is irrelevant in regards to the ledger state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key takeaway of the outlined process above is the fact that each unique `output` can only be spent once.  When any `output` is spent, it cannot be used any more, and is irrelevant to the ledger state.
```

> So even if Alice still wants to keep remaining tokens at her fingertips, those tokens have to be moved to a completely new `output` that can be, for instance, still tied to the Alice's same IOTA address as before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So even if Alice still wants to keep remaining tokens at her fingertips, those tokens have to be moved to a completely new `output`.  This new `output` could still tied to the Alice's same IOTA address as before.
```

> Every `output` also stores information about an IOTA address to which it is coupled with. So addresses and tokens are indirectly coupled via `outputs`. Basically, the sum of outputs and their amounts under the given address is a balance of the given address, ie., the number of tokens the given address can spend. And the sum of all unspent outputs and their amounts is equal to the total supply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every `output` also stores information about an IOTA address to which it is coupled with. So addresses and tokens are indirectly coupled via `outputs`. Basically, the sum of outputs, and their amounts under the given address, is the balance of the given address.  This balance is the number of tokens the given address can spend. The sum of all unspent outputs, and their amounts, is equal to the total supply.
```

> `Outputs` are being broadcasted encapsulated in a `message` as a part of `SignedTransaction` payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Outputs` are being broadcast encapsulated in a `message` as a part of `SignedTransaction` payload.
```

## Selected Message Payloads

> Currently, there are two commonly used message payloads, `IndexationPayload` and `SignedTransaction` which can be combined based as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, there are two commonly used message payloads, which can be combined based as needed:
- [IndexationPayload](#indexationpayload) 
- [SignedTransaction](#signedtransaction)
```

For further refefence, please see our [Protocol-rfc#0018 - Transaction Payload](https://github.com/luca-moser/protocol-rfcs/blob/signed-tx-payload/text/0000-transaction-payload/0000-transaction-payload.md).

### IndexationPayload

> `IndexationPayload` is a payload type that can be used to attach an arbitrary `data` and key `index` to a message. When this particular payload is leveraged, then a message and related data entity can be searched via key `index` in addition to a `message_id`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An `IndexationPayload` is a payload type that can be used to attach an arbitrary `data` and a key `index` to a message. When this particular payload is leveraged, then a message and related data entity can be searched using the key `index`, in addition to a `message_id`.
```

> `SignedTransaction` is a payload type that is used to transfer value-based messages as `UTXO`. It changes the ledger state as old `outputs` are being spent (replaced) and new `outputs` are being created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `SignedTransaction` is a payload type that is used to transfer value-based messages as `UTXO`. It changes the ledger state as old `outputs` are spent (replaced) and new `outputs` are created.
```

Each `SignedTransaction` includes the following set of information:

> * `inputs` - a list of valid `outputs` that should be used to fund the given transaction. Outputs are uniquely referenced via previous `transaction_id` and inner `index`. At least one output has to be given with enough balance to source all `outputs` of the given message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `inputs`: a list of valid `outputs` that should be used to fund the given transaction. Outputs are uniquely referenced by the previous `transaction_id` and inner `index`. At least one output has to be given with enough balance to source all `outputs` of the given message.
```

> * `outputs` - a list of IOTA address(es) and related amount(s) the input `outputs` should be split among. Based on this information, new `UTXO` outputs are being created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `outputs`: a list of IOTA address(es) and related amount(s) the input `outputs` should be split among. Based on this information, new `UTXO` outputs will be created.
```

> * `unlock_blocks` - it includes a transaction signature(s) (currently based on `Ed25519` scheme) that proves token ownership based on a valid seed.

Reviewer: * `unlock_blocks`:  it includes a transaction signature(s) (currently based on `Ed25519` scheme) that prove(s) token ownership based on a valid seed.

## Dust Protection

> Since IOTA is feeless and has the ability to send microtransactions, attackers could use this to spam the network with very low value transactions, which we call dust. To avoid this, we only allow microtransaction below 1Mi (dust) of IOTA tokens to another address if you already have at least 1Mi as a dust allowance output on that address. The number of allowed dust outputs on an address is the amount of the dust allowance outputs divided by 100,000 and rounded down, i.e. 10 outputs for each 1 Mi deposited, with a maximum of 100 dust outputs in total.

Reviewer: This last sentence seems a bit long.  Perhaps we could the i.e. ... to a new sentence.

> > In the UTXO model, each node in the network needs to keep track of all the currently unspent outputs. When the number of outputs becomes too large, it can cause performance and memory issues. The RFC below proposes a new protocol rule regarding the processing of outputs where they transfer a very small amount of IOTA’s so-called dust outputs. Dust outputs are only allowed when they are backed up by a certain deposit on the receiving address. This limits the amount of dust outputs, thus making it expensive to proliferate dust. Since a receiver must make a deposit, the protocol makes receiving dust an opt-in feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the UTXO model, each node in the network needs to keep track of all the currently unspent outputs. When the number of outputs becomes too large, it can cause performance and memory issues. The RFC below proposes a new protocol rule regarding the processing of outputs where they transfer a very small amount of IOTA’s so-called dust outputs. Chrysalis will only allow dust outputs when they are backed up by a certain deposit on the receiving address. This limits the amount of dust outputs, thus making it expensive to proliferate dust. Since a receiver must make a deposit, the protocol makes receiving dust an opt-in feature.
```

> For further refefence, please see our [Protocol-rfc#0032 - Dust Protection](https://github.com/GalRogozinski/protocol-rfcs/blob/dust/text/0032-dust-protection/0032-dust-protection.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further reference, please see our [Protocol-rfc#0032 - Dust Protection](https://github.com/GalRogozinski/protocol-rfcs/blob/dust/text/0032-dust-protection/0032-dust-protection.md).
```

## Up to 8 Parents

> With IOTA 1.0, you always had to reference 2 parent transactions. With Chrysalis, we introduce a more dynamic number of parent nodes where you can reference up to 8 parents. We recommend you reference at least 2 unique parents at all times for the best possible results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With IOTA 1.0, you always had to reference 2 parent transactions. With Chrysalis, we introduce a more dynamic number of parent nodes, where you can reference up to 8 parents. We recommend you reference at least 2 unique parents at all times for the best possible results.
```

> For further refefence, please see our [Protocol-rfc#0017 - Message](https://github.com/GalRogozinski/protocol-rfcs/blob/message/text/0017-message/0017-message.md). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further reference, please see our [Protocol-rfc#0017 - Message](https://github.com/GalRogozinski/protocol-rfcs/blob/message/text/0017-message/0017-message.md).
```
